# CS102 - Final Project Proposal
## Date: 7 Nov 2018
## Group Member Names: Robert Samuel, Christian Lussier, Mikey Spurr, Trent Faulkner

# Proposal
<!-- Introductory paragraph/brief overview of proposed project -->
In today's world, good decision making is extremely important for any business to be successful. For example, a bank must be careful when lending money, because if it chooses someone who is financially unstable, they risk losing a lot of money. As a result, our group has decided to create a program that uses user-inputs, truth tables, and a variety of other concepts in order to create a program for a sample bank that judges whether or not a potential loan candidate should actually receive a loan. The program will have a variety of different use options. In theory, this program would be used by a bank consultant or teller who is asking a potential loan candidate questions. The teller would ask 3 quick questions that could easily determine if the client would be able to pay back the loan. If the three questions give an unsure result, the program would move on to the second set of questions (likely around 10 questions). The program would analyze the client's answers to these questions and output whether or not the client should be offered the loan. Additionally, the program could read in a document of previous responses and give a determination based on them. It could also output answers entered for clients to a document. This Python program could potentially help a bank be more financially successful. This project made using Python, truth tables, and more, is important in today's financial climate because companies need to have better decision making than ever to be successful financially.

<!-- Paragraph for motivation of project -->
There are a variety of motivations behind creating this project for our group. One of these motivations comes from our group's general interest in learning more about truth tables. We found the lab that used truth tables and lectures that discussed them to be very interesting as we feel that truth tables can be implemented for a large range of uses. Moreover, we feel it could be quite fun to create the program as described above. We have also completed background research that contained content relating to our project that has contributed to our motivation to complete this project. According to Karagiannis, Stelios, Yannis Panagopoulos, and Aristotelis Spiliotis, the loan-customer relationship was estimated to be one of the two most significant explanatory variables of the loan equation. Additionally if a loaner and a customer have been have a longstanding relationship, this could overwhelm a moral or reasonable working relationship between the two because of the emotional bond (Karagiannis, Stelios, Yannis Panagopoulos, and Aristotelis Spiliotis). This emotional bond could cause loaners to loan money or larger amounts of money when they shouldn't. This is a motivation for our program because it is about the loaner-customer relationship and making a determination on whether a customer should receive a loan or not, regardless of any emotional aspect. Another motivation behind creating a program that can better help banks or other lenders determine if they should give out a loan to a customer comes in the form of the idea that bad loans can be detrimental to a bank's financial health. According to Amoako, "Bad loans have been identified as one of the major factors affecting the profitability and survival of rural and community banks in Ghana." Additionally, Asantey, J. O., and S. Tengey say that banks need to hedge against bad loans to maximize their financial performance. This essentially means that banks need to avoid giving out bad loans to maximize their profits, something that our program could help a bank or lender do. Overall, their are a variety of motivations behind creating this project like preventing bad loans in order to maximize profit, interest in the program's concepts, and more.

<!-- Paragraph of how completing the project is feasible -- do you need data? How much time do you think you need (code and actual writing)? How will we showcase idea? -->
We believe that completing this project is feasible within the scope of our class. From class lectures, labs, and more we have a good understanding of the main concept, which is the concept of truth tables, that this project will be based on. Our group also has a good understanding of the basic Python concepts that will be utilized in this project, like file inputting and outputting, functions, classes, and more. As a result, our group believes that we have a good enough knowledge base to complete this project. For our project, we may decide to use outside data however it is important to note that it is not necessary to have outside data for this project as we can generate sample data ourselves. Additionally, the final program will be created for use with or without data. However, if we do decide to use outside data it should be fairly easy to find because most banks that offer loans keep data on people they are giving loans to. We also believe that completing this project is feasible even when considering the time constraints we have to create it. The coding should not take too long because as we mentioned earlier, we have the necessary knowledge of the concepts that this program will use. Also, there are four members in our group who will be helping with the coding portion of this lab which will help to lessen the workload and stress of all group members. This idea holds true for the writing portion of the lab, as there are many group members who can contribute to writing the reports needed for the lab. If we properly split up the work it absolutely should be feasible for our group to complete this lab without much stress in the project timeline. Additionally, if the work is properly split up it will be possible for the group to finish enough work in time for our presentation which will include information about the project using presentation slides and a code showcase and an example of the program in action. We feel it is feasible to finish a project that is important in today's financial climate and is made using Python, truth tables, and more within the scope of this class.

# References
Amoako, Kwabi Atta. The effect of bad loans on the profitability and lending potential of rural banks. A case study of some selected rural banks in the Ashanti Region. Diss. 2016.

Asantey, J. O., and S. Tengey. "An Empirical Study on the Effect of Bad Loans on Banks ‘Lending Potential and Financial Performance: The Case of SMEs--Lending In Ghana." Impact: International Journal of Research in Business Management (IMPACT: IJRBM), 2 (11) (2014): 1-12.

Karagiannis, Stelios, Yannis Panagopoulos, and Aristotelis Spiliotis. "MODELLING BANKS'LENDING BEHAVIOUR IN A CAPITAL‐REGULATED FRAMEWORK." Metroeconomica 63.2 (2012): 389-416.
